h1. Documentation Driven Testing

h2. Artifacts

h3. Initializing Artifacts

Artifacts are usually created via the setup() class method which is intended to be used in the course of creating a document, so many attributes are set based on the document which is creating the artifact. However sometimes artifacts are created on their own, as when creating additional artifacts.

The 'key' argument is required to be passed when creating a new artifact.

{{ d.source.artifact['__init__'] }}

When the artifact is part of a document, the key consists of the original filename plus any filters that have been run up to this point, the final filter in the list being the filter which this artifact represents. The artifact class is responsible for generating canonical filenames based on this key:

{{ d.nose.test_artifact_filenames_file_key_with_filters }}

The long canonical form is intended to be unique, whereas the short form is more friendly and may make more intuitive sense in some cases, but may not be unique.

{{ d.source.artifact.canonical_filename }}
{{ d.source.artifact.long_canonical_filename }}

Where an Artifact is used outside of a document, the key may not have an extension:

{{ d.nose.test_artifact_filenames_simple_key }}

Where an artifact is part of a document, the extension will be determined automatically, however in the case of a standalone file, the extension will need to be specified.

The setup method associates a new artifact with its doc, and, if applicable, a previous artifact:

{{ d.source.artifact.setup }}

The setup method is called by the create initial artifact method in the Document class:

{{ d.source.document.create_initial_artifact }}

And also by the setup method in the Handler class:

{{ d.source.handler.setup }}

h3. Persisting and Restoring Artifacts

Artifacts are an important part of Dexy's caching system, so that documents need only be regenerated when necessary. Each artifact calculates a hashstring for itself, and later stores its data under this hashstring. If a later run of the artifact results in an identical hashstring, then it is safe to use the cached data. So the hashstring calculation should take into account all information which may have an impact on the final output.

The hashstring function:

{{ d.source.artifact.set_hashstring }}

relies on the hash_dict function:

{{ d.source.artifact.hash_dict }}

which restricts items to the whitelist:

<ul>
{% for k in d.source.artifact.HASH_WHITELIST.split(",") %}
<li>{{ k | replace("'","") | replace("[","") | replace("]","") }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

{{ d.nose.test_artifact_hash_dict }}

Dexy allows for different caching mechanisms. The options currently available are the default file system caching mechanism which writes data to files in the artifacts directory, and an experimental Riak (distributed key-value database) caching mechanism. Caching mechanisms are implemented by subclassing the Artifact class and implementing a save() and load() method (among others). It should be noted that, for now, an artifacts directory will still be needed even if using a caching mechanism that doesn't write data to that location, as many filters will write working files to the artifacts directory.

h3. FileSystemJsonArtifact save()

{{ d.source.file_system_json_artifact.save }}

h3. RiakArtifact save()

{{ d.source.riak_artifact.save }}


{% if False %}
{{ d.source.artifact['META_ATTRS'] }}
h1. Keys

h3. Nose

<pre>
{% for k in d.nose.keys() %}
{{ k }}
{% endfor %}
</pre>

h3. Artifact

<pre>
{% for k in d.source.artifact.keys() %}
{{ k }}
{% endfor %}
</pre>

h3. Controller

<pre>
{% for k in d.source.controller.keys() %}
{{ k }}
{% endfor %}
</pre>

{% endif %}

